The Joe Rogan experience.
Well, there's a, you know,
there's this suspicion like people have suspicion about the government.
Like there's a lot of people that don't want to get the vaccine.
Cause they're worried about the government, that, that it's also that,
that exists in minority communities. And then in more poor communities,
what are your thoughts about this vaccine passport concept?
Because a lot of people find that deeply problematic giving the government this
ability to let people travel or not travel based on whether or not
you've been vaccinated.
The left cannot let go of COVID. They can't let go of it.
They want it around. They want to keep spending money based on,
on this sort of moral stance that we need to keep supporting
communities because of COVID.
And that we needed to keep doing things and taking excessive action because of
COVID they cannot let it go because they love collectivism and they love
centralized control of the economy and society.
I recall a definition we were looking at earlier, which sort of against that,
but, and again,
I always distinguish between liberals and progressives on this one. Okay.
I think, I think there is a, there,
there should be an Alliance between real liberals and conservatives in the
future,
and that's how we're going to solve problems that I talked to Brett Weinstein
all the time, you know.
Weinstein. If you talk to him all the time, he knows his last Nash,
Maybe Harvey Weinstein, Bret Weinstein.
All right. Anyway, I think anyway, he's like, I'm a hardcore liberal. He's like,
I'm a radical liberal.
And we just agree on so many things because he's a classical liberal.
And if you're gonna describe yourself as liberal,
you mean in the classical sense, in most cases, and you want nice things,
you have the sense of compassion and you want nice things for people.
Maybe it's healthcare,
maybe it's to take care of people when they fallen on hard times.
These are good things. These are not bad things.
They're not things that conservatives even disagree with.
We now we generally have a different philosophy on how to S how to find
solutions for those problems. That's the, that's the center. I guess if we're,
if we're always like grasping for the center, which a lot of people are. And I,
you know, I always kind of questioned like, what do you mean by that? Well,
but maybe that's the right way to look at it. Liberals are good at,
at having enough empathy and compassion to see what might need to be
changed.
Conservatives are good at finding the solutions for that change that
maintains the good things that got us here in the first place.
You can't burn down all the foundations of a society just because you're not at
utopia yet. Remember utopia is defined as in Greek, as being nowhere.
And you'll always, you'll always burn things down to grasp for that.
You can't get to that point. So I think that's the right Alliance. Um,
kind of, I, I kind of forgot what the initial question was, but.
Well, it's all w w you're talking about the difference between, uh,
a classical liberal, well, when you say classical liberal,
I always think you're trying to like, pretend you're,
you're liberal when you really conservative, like,
cause there's a lot of people that use that term classical liberal,
and it's like, well, what do you believe? Like it's like things get sneaky.
I think there's a real problem with definitions. There's a real problem with,
like, you got to focus on the definition. Chris rock was saying though,
about like gangs like that. You, you have like,
I'm more conservative and I believe you have these predetermined patterns of
behavior that people subscribed to without any independent thinking,
without any objective thinking. And it's a real problem with human beings.
Like I think ultimately what everybody wants is what's good for the community
that everyone, what they want for themselves, selfishly,
but they also want for their friends and neighbors and loved ones and family
members, they want what's good for everybody,
but they can't agree in what is good for everybody.
And then when people don't have, they look at people who do have, and they go,
well, how the did they have?
And then some grifter will come along and they have,
because they've taken from you. And that, that there in lies the problem,
because if you're not educated or if you haven't like deeply researched the
ideas, especially with an objective perspective,
you can sort of believe a lot of these Grifters,
a lot of these people that come along and they, they say crazy,
like tax the rich or eat the rich and like, oh Jesus Christ had,
how did they get rich? Did they, did they get rich from stealing?
Or did he get rich from discipline and hard work and decades,
decades in the trenches? So you're dealing with two very different things.
Well, classically liberal philosophy would ask that question because,
because there's a,
because there's a sense of justice involved with any question.
And in that sense of justice,
is that somebody infringe on your rights and what are rights,
life, Liberty, property, generally speaking in the classical sense.
Now you can go,
you can go further back in time before classic enlightenment principles came
about in the, you know, 18th century. Um,
but then you're, but then you're dealing with feudalism.
Then you're dealing with tribalism.
Then you're dealing with what I think a lot on the left.
One to bring us back to the sort of subjugating people into different identities
and hierarchies based on those identities, that's a really bad place to be.
They want to bring us back to that moment in history.
What w w what the enlightenment period did was say, look,
you can keep dividing people up all day long.
Eventually you just get to an individual.
So maybe we should look at how individuals act and then have a,
have a really rational structure about how we,
how we define incentives and how we define justice.
And justice should be defined as, as, as somebody infringing a person,
a infringing on the rights of person, B, or person a, you know, making it,
um, in a hierarchy for, for unworthy reasons,
something other than a meritocracy, that would be an injustice.
And I know you said that the left is fascinated by COVID or obsessed with
COVID, but we didn't really cover it. Like.
That was the original question I got really philosophical in that, that, that,
that was the original question. What do you think, obviously, a bad idea.
It's not, and it's obviously a bad idea because like,
and a lot of the well-intentioned people on the left tend to they're
well-intentioned, but they do tend to live like they're still in grad school.
And I know, because I went to Harvard in a, in a policy school,
I went to the Harvard Kennedy school after the military,
and there's an infatuation with being able to design the perfect policy on
paper. Now that's the first step. Of course.
Now the second step is how do you implement it? And also, again,
whose rights are you infringing on when you implement these things?
These are the questions they don't ask.
This is what a conservative always asks again.
When I talk about how to solve problems through a framework of limiting
principles, this is what I mean, you have to ask these questions. And so what,
how, you know, what is the practicality of this? And it's not practical at all,
frankly. Um, depending on what they mean by a COVID passport also. I mean,
maybe we should define that first. Um, but, but it's,
it's one thing to ask people like, Hey, I don't know, wear a green bracelet if,
uh, if you already got the vaccine and you've already had COVID or both,
or either, or.
But it's not that it's like limiting your ability.
To travel, which is an excessive infringement on your rights. And also,
and also, is it really even scientific given the trends that we're seeing?
I mean, all in all, no matter how you approach this question,
it seems like a really bad idea. When you.
Say, is it even scientific? What do you.
Mean by that? Meaning we've been traveling for a year without vaccines.
Uh, in a limited aspect. Some people have travel a lot.
And then capacity. Yeah. I mean, it's somewhat limited somewhat.
Well, no, if you look at the airline trends, it's severely limited.
Fairly. Yeah. I, I spent a lot of time at airports over the.
Last year.
But I know, I know, I know how crowded they are every time I'm there. And yeah,
there was definitely a time period where they were ghost towns,
but that hasn't been the case for many, many nights, still.
Not even 50% of what it was a year ago or a.
Year and a half ago. I don't know the exact numbers. I don't know what it is.
I just know that we've been living with it.
Just like you have to live with a pandemic because you don't have a choice.
Here's a big difference. Maybe, maybe everything boils down to this difference,
the right beliefs, look, you don't have a choice. You gotta make the best of it.
You gotta keep living. You gotta, you gotta mitigate risk where you can,
but you can't mitigate risk at the expense of everything else.
And the left says, no, no, no, no, no.
You have to mitigate risk at the expense of everything else.
No cost is too high because if it just saves one life,
this is the fundamental different problem they don't.
Take into account is it costs a lot of lives.
It costs a lot of lives who have suicide, depression, drug addiction.
There's a little.
The rules closing has been excessively bad and there's no
science to indicate that this is that this is what our kids need.
I have a friend that lives in Nevada and their community was ravaged by
suicide with a young kids. And they're devastated by it.
And they're trying to figure out like what,
there's a massive escalation of suicides in high school aged kids
because of the pandemic.
You have a higher chance of dying from the flu. If under 20 years old,
why doesn't Dr. Fowchee ever say that? Why does it, why does he go, Hey,
you could die. If you're 40, you could guess you could,
but you have to contextualize the information you're given.
This is why America's lost trust in their public health officials,
because they never contextualize anything.
They never give you the probability of risk.
Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free. Only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.